What data types do each of these values represent?

    "A Clockwork Orange" - STRING
    42 - NUMBER
    09/02/1945 - DATE
    98.7 - NUMBER(FLOAT)
    $15.99 - STRING(BECAUSE OF DOLLAR SIGN)

Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.
    A: A database would be used when you are adding a value that you want to have access to after the progam is done running.  
    You can use a text file instead of a database when there is only one instance of your program running at a time.

Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
    A: The first thing I noticed about SQL is it reads almost like a sentence.
    "GET... FROM... WHERE...".

In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
    A: Databases are well organized with each line of a table being an object, and each cell acting as an object property organized based on the column's meaning.

Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
    A: A value of the object property, the row is the object, a column defines what the values represent, and the table tells you what objects it holds.

List three data types that can be used in a table.
    A: String, data, number 

Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:
    SELECT date, amount
    FROM payments;
    A: Give me all data and amount values from the payments table.

    SELECT amount
    FROM payments
    WHERE amount > 500;
    A: Give me all the amount values from the payments tables that are over 500.

    SELECT *
    FROM payments
    WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';
    A: Give me all values from the payments table for the payee 'Mega Foods'.

Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:
    The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
    A:  SELECT email, sign-up
        FROM users
        WHERE user = DeAndre Data;        

    The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
    A:  SELECT user ID
        FROM users
        WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

    All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
    A:  SELECT *
        FROM users
        WHERE user ID >= 4;
    
    
    